gwizard-logging/README.md, before:

# GWizard Logging

Sets up Logback logging, routing all the "other" logging mechanisms into logback.
There are a couple ways to manage the configuration.

## Maven

```xml
	<dependency>
		<groupId>com.voodoodyne.gwizard</groupId>
		<artifactId>gwizard-logging</artifactId>
		<version>${gwizard.version}</version>
	</dependency>
```

This pulls in all relevant dependencies.

## Usage: Configured using logback.xml

[A self-contained example](src/test/java/com/voodoodyne/gwizard/logging/example/LoggingModuleExample.java)

If you prefer the [traditional Logback configuration boostrap process](http://logback.qos.ch/manual/configuration.html),
just register the `LoggingModule`:

```java
Injector injector = Guice.createInjector(new LoggingModule());
```

You can also override specific logging levels with the `LoggingConfig`; see the self-contained example.

## Usage: Configured from your master config file

It's nice to configure logging in the same place you configure everything else, especially if you have separate
config files for different environments (dev vs staging vs production). However, this means that logging
remains unconfigured (well, it's configured as per the Logback default bootstrap) until after Guice has started and
your configuration file has been processed! This could be an issue, especially if you only monitor logs with an
aggregation service. Imagine you introduce a syntax error into your config file; you'll never see an error at your
aggregator!

Nevertheless, "one single config file" is too useful. To minimize the risk, register the `LoggingModule` first
when creating your Injector so that it starts up as early as possible.

At the moment there is only one way to put logging configuration in your master config file:

### XML in your YAML

[A self-contained example](src/test/java/com/voodoodyne/gwizard/logging/example/LoggingModuleExample2.java)

You can also find a complete example in the [GWizard example app](https://github.com/stickfigure/gwizard-example).

Logback's configuration code understands XML, not YAML. So for now, the easiest way to maintain log configuration
is to store a big chunk of XML in your YAML config. Because of YAML's text blocks, this is surprisingly elegant:

```yaml
# this is your example.yml
logging:
  xml: |
    <configuration>
        <appender name="console" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
            <encoder>
                <pattern>%d %5p %40.40c:%4L - %m%n</pattern>
            </encoder>
        </appender>

        <logger name="com.example.app" level="trace"/>

        <root level="info">
            <appender-ref ref="console"/>
        </root>
    </configuration>
```

```java
@Slf4j
public class Main {
	@Data
	public static class MyConfig {
		LoggingConfig logging = new LoggingConfig();
	}

	public static class MyModule extends AbstractModule {
		@Override
		protected void configure() {}

		@Provides
		public LoggingConfig loggingConfig(MyConfig cfg) {
			return cfg.getLogging();
		}
	}

	public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
		final Injector injector = Guice.createInjector(
			new LoggingModule(),
			new MyModule(),
			new ConfigModule(new File(args[0], MyConfig.class);

		log.info("Hello!");
	}
}

```

If GWizard finds some content in the `logging.xml` property, it will use this to configure Logback. Otherwise
it leaves the default Logback bootstrap configuration intact.

As with the default logback.xml bootstrap, you can override logging levels in your config file:

```yaml
logging:
  loggers:
  	"com.example.whatever": WARN

  xml: |
    <configuration>
    	<!-- etc -->
    </configuration>
```

## Contract

* The `LoggingModule` does its hijack of java.util.logging when you *construct* the module itself.
* On app start, looks at a bound `LoggingConfig`; if there is xml present, configures Logback accordingly.
  * The default just-in-time bound `LoggingConfig` does nothing (has no xml).
* Any levels specified in `LoggingConfig`'s `loggers` property are overrides.

Commit message:

Minor improvement to logging readme

gwizard-logging/README.md, after:

# GWizard Logging

Sets up Logback logging, routing all the "other" logging mechanisms into logback.
There are a couple ways to manage the configuration.

## Maven

```xml
	<dependency>
		<groupId>com.voodoodyne.gwizard</groupId>
		<artifactId>gwizard-logging</artifactId>
		<version>${gwizard.version}</version>
	</dependency>
```

This pulls in all relevant dependencies.

## Usage: Configured using logback.xml

[A self-contained example](src/test/java/com/voodoodyne/gwizard/logging/example/LoggingModuleExample.java)

If you prefer the [traditional Logback configuration boostrap process](http://logback.qos.ch/manual/configuration.html),
just register the `LoggingModule`:

```java
Injector injector = Guice.createInjector(new LoggingModule());
```

You can also override specific logging levels with the `LoggingConfig`; see the self-contained example.

## Usage: Configured from your master config file

It's nice to configure logging in the same place you configure everything else, especially if you have separate
config files for different environments (dev vs staging vs production). However, this means that logging
remains unconfigured (well, it's configured as per the Logback default bootstrap) until after Guice has started and
your configuration file has been processed! This could be an issue, especially if you only monitor logs with an
aggregation service. Imagine you introduce a syntax error into your config file; you'll never see an error at your
aggregator!

Nevertheless, "one single config file" is too useful. To minimize the risk, register the `LoggingModule` first
when creating your Injector so that it starts up as early as possible.

At the moment there is only one way to put logging configuration in your master config file:

### XML in your YAML

[A self-contained example](src/test/java/com/voodoodyne/gwizard/logging/example/LoggingModuleExample2.java)

You can also find a complete example in the [GWizard example app](https://github.com/stickfigure/gwizard-example).

Logback's configuration code understands XML, not YAML. So for now, the easiest way to maintain log configuration
is to store a big chunk of XML in your YAML config. Because of YAML's text blocks, this is surprisingly elegant:

```yaml
# example.yml
logging:
  loggers:
  	"com.example.whatever": WARN	# override anything in xml

  xml: |
    <configuration>
        <appender name="console" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
            <encoder>
                <pattern>%d %5p %40.40c:%4L - %m%n</pattern>
            </encoder>
        </appender>

        <logger name="com.example.app" level="trace"/>

        <root level="info">
            <appender-ref ref="console"/>
        </root>
    </configuration>
```

```java
@Slf4j
public class Main {
	@Data
	public static class MyConfig {
		LoggingConfig logging = new LoggingConfig();
	}

	public static class MyModule extends AbstractModule {
		@Override
		protected void configure() {}

		@Provides
		public LoggingConfig loggingConfig(MyConfig cfg) {
			return cfg.getLogging();
		}
	}

	public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
		final Injector injector = Guice.createInjector(
			new LoggingModule(),
			new MyModule(),
			new ConfigModule(new File(args[0], MyConfig.class);

		log.info("Hello!");
	}
}

```

If GWizard finds some content in the `xml` property, it will use this to configure Logback. Otherwise
it leaves the default Logback bootstrap configuration intact. Overrides from the `loggers` apply either way.

## Contract

* The `LoggingModule` does its hijack of java.util.logging when you *construct* the module itself.
* On app start, looks at a bound `LoggingConfig`; if there is xml present, configures Logback accordingly.
  * The default just-in-time bound `LoggingConfig` does nothing (has no xml).
* Any levels specified in `LoggingConfig`'s `loggers` property are overrides.
